# 🗽 The Interaction of Society and Technology

In 2014, [Gavin Wood](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2021/12/08/most-influential-40-gavin-wood/) wrote a foundational [article](http://gavwood.com/dappsweb3.html) describing Web3; here’s an excerpt:

> **As we move into the future, we find increasing need for a zero-trust interaction system**. Even pre-[Snowden](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jun/09/edward-snowden-nsa-whistleblower-surveillance), we realised that entrusting our information to arbitrary entities on the internet was fraught with danger. However, post-Snowden the argument plainly falls in the hand of those who believe that large organisations and governments routinely attempt to stretch and overstep their authority. Thus we realise that entrusting our information to organisations in general is a fundamentally broken model. The chance of an organisation not meddling with our data is merely the effort required minus their expected gains. Given they tend to have an[ income model ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surveillance\_capitalism)that requires they know as much about people as possible the realist will realise that the potential for convert misuse is difficult to overestimate.
>
> The protocols and technologies on the Web, and even at large the Internet, served as a great technology preview. The workhorses of SMTP, FTP, HTTP(S), PHP, HTML, Javascript each helped contribute to the sort of rich cloud-based applications we see today such as Google's Drive, Facebook, and Twitter, not to mention the countless other applications ranging through games, shopping, banking, and dating. However, **going into the future, much of these protocols and technologies will have to be re-engineered according to our new understandings of the interaction between society and technology**.
>
> Web 3.0, or as might be termed the "post-Snowden" web, is a reimagination of the sorts of things that we already use the Web for, but with a fundamentally different model for the interactions between parties. Information that we assume to be public, we publish. Information that we assume to be agreed, we place on a consensus-ledger. Information that we assume to be private, we keep secret and never reveal. Communication always takes place over encrypted channels and only with pseudonymous identities as endpoints; never with anything traceable (such as IP addresses). In short, **we engineer the system to mathematically enforce our prior assumptions, since no government or organisation can reasonably be trusted**.
